
#Exhibitors at the Kilburn Careers Fair

Who comes to the annual Kilburn careers fair, and how are they selected?

  1. **ALUMNI**: Some employers are invited to the fair because they have already recruited former students and come back for more. Many of the stands were staffed by alumni from Computer Science. We estimate that approximately 20% of undergraduates @csmcr go on to work in the financial services sector, so that’s reflected in the employers exhibiting at the fair. We turn lots of financial services organisations away because space is limited and we want as much diversity as we can. So while there were a few of banks, their presence is a reflection of where alumni are working.
  2. **BIG AMERICAN TECH**: There are some big tech companies that would be great to have at our fair (e.g. Apple, Google etc) but they don’t do fairs in the UK, because they don’t need to.
  3. FINITE RESOURCES: Space and time are limited; we expanded the fair to two days for the first time this year in order to double the number of employers and provide a much wider range of employers. Our current limit is about 30 employers.
  4. **LONG WAIT LIST** Despite expanding the fair in 2015, there were still lots of companies (yes, some of them were investment banks!) on the waitlist who would have liked to have been there, but we turned away. We are always over-subscribed. The fair can’t get any bigger without changing venue - and losing the benefits of being in Kilburn.
  5. **UNIQUE**: We’ve tried to select employers that aren’t at any of the other careers fairs (e.g. Business & Management fair, Science & Engineering fair at Manchester Central, Electrical Engineering fair and Maths Calculating Careers day). For example, Goldman Sachs weren’t at any of the other fairs. There’s not much point having the same exhibitors at different fairs during autumn in Manchester. So we’re trying to be unique, rather than repeat what other fairs are doing.
  6. **NORTHERN POWERHOUSE**. Where possible, we’ve selected some smaller local employers to complement the large multi-national corporations that come along.The School plays an important role in the local economy (ask George Osborne’s about the Northern Powerhouse) and the careers fair is a unique opportunity to publicise some local employers to students. A significant proportion of undergraduates stay in the North West after graduation, so we’ve tried to support these employers and build long term relationships that will benefit students in the future.
  7. **DIVERSITY** We don’t want to select just large "blue chip” employers, or pure tech companies or only small Manchester startups . We can’t please everyone, but we’d like there to be as much diversity as possible at the fair. This diversity reflects the huge breadth and depth of employers in our industry club, see http://www.cs.manchester.ac.uk/industry/club/ and the very wide range of careers that students go onto after graduating in Computer Science - not just in technology but in every sector of business where technology is now fundamental
