# Describing your educational background

This section [git.io/mycved](http://git.io/mycved) part of [git.io/mycv](http://git.io/mycv).

## Education (ED)

For graduates, education should usually be the first section, as it is probably the most important (and recent) thing about you, unless you have significant work experience or activities outside of your degree:

1. **OUTLINE** Give an outline of what you have studied in your degree. For example saying “BSc in Computer Science” is too vague and ambiguous. What have you studied? Include courses that you will be doing in the future, as well as ones you have already done. By the time you get the interview, you'll be able to say more about them. What exactly does YOUR Computer Science degree mean? Add some brief context... Just saying “*BSc Computer Science*” is not enough, there are around [9000 students graduating with computer science degrees in the UK every year](https://web.archive.org/web/20160210155934/https://cphcuk.files.wordpress.com/2016/01/computinggraduateemployabilitysharingpractice.pdf) and each course is different - so give *some* of the details including those up to the end of your current year of study
2. **TOO MUCH**... but don't list every single module you've done - just summarise the courses that are relevant to the job, the ones you found interesting or excelled at. Also, can you summarise what a BSc in Computer Science (or your specific degree programme) actually **is** in one or two sentences?
3. **AVERAGE** Give an overall degree classification e.g “first year average, 65%, 2:1” but don't list every mark for every course. Long lists of marks are usually a waste of space and tedious for the reader, unless you want to highlight exceptional performance in particular modules you have studied. Whatever mark you are describing, two significant figures is enough e.g. don't say “*68.71% overall mark*” - just “*68% average mark*” will do
4. **AIMING HIGHER** If you hope that your degree classification will improve, state what your achieved grade and expected grades are - they might be different (e.g. expected grade: first class)
5. **SUMMARISE** Instead of listing EVERY secondary / high school qualification, summarise them briefly e.g. “13 GCSE's A*-A including Maths and English”. These exams were important when you were 16, but are much less relevant now so don't waste valuable space with a detailed description
6. **DATES** The description of your degree should include a start date and (expected) end date (year). Don't include the day, and only include months where they are relevant (e.g. summer jobs)
7. **FIRST YEAR TEAM PROJECT** Mention the **name** of the project, what it did and what your role was e.g. *Mancshacks: built an accommodation finder for students in Manchester that worked both on mobile and web platforms, co-ordinated and organised a team of 6 students meeting once a week over a 6 month period, see http://www.mancshacks.com*. No-one outside the Kilburn building will understand what you mean if you say “first year team project”. What skills did you gain while doing it (not just tech skills)? What role did you play in the team? Spell it out for the reader so they don't have make their own inferences.
